README.md, before:

# README

[![Travis Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle.svg?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle)
[![AppVeyor Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/9h6tmsypukxhufml/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/egeloen/ivoryckeditorbundle/branch/master)
[![Code Coverage](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/badges/coverage.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/?branch=master)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/?branch=master)
[![Dependency Status](http://www.versioneye.com/php/egeloen:ckeditor-bundle/badge.svg)](http://www.versioneye.com/php/egeloen:ckeditor-bundle)

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle/v/stable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle)
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle/v/unstable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle/downloads.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle)

The bundle provides a [CKEditor](http://ckeditor.com/) integration for your Symfony Project. It automatically registers
the new `ckeditor` form type which can be easily as well as highly configured.

## Documentation

Please, read the [official documentation](http://symfony.com/doc/master/bundles/IvoryCKEditorBundle/index.html).

## Testing

The bundle is fully unit tested by [PHPUnit](http://www.phpunit.de/) with a code coverage close to **100%**. To
execute the test suite, check the travis [configuration](/.travis.yml).

## Contribute

We love contributors! Ivory is an open source project. If you'd like to contribute, feel free to propose a PR! You
can follow the [CONTRIBUTING](/CONTRIBUTING.md) file which will explain you how to set up the project.

## License

The Ivory CKEditor Bundle is under the MIT license. For the full copyright and license information, please read the
[LICENSE](/LICENSE) file that was distributed with this source code.

Commit message:

not yet compatible with Symfony 4
not yet compatible with Symfony 4 due to `symfony/form`

README.md, after:

# README

[![Travis Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle.svg?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle)
[![AppVeyor Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/9h6tmsypukxhufml/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/egeloen/ivoryckeditorbundle/branch/master)
[![Code Coverage](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/badges/coverage.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/?branch=master)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/?branch=master)
[![Dependency Status](http://www.versioneye.com/php/egeloen:ckeditor-bundle/badge.svg)](http://www.versioneye.com/php/egeloen:ckeditor-bundle)

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle/v/stable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle)
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle/v/unstable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle/downloads.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/egeloen/ckeditor-bundle)

The bundle provides a [CKEditor](http://ckeditor.com/) integration for your Symfony Project ( not yet compatible with Symfony 4 due to `symfony/form` ). It automatically registers
the new `ckeditor` form type which can be easily as well as highly configured.

## Documentation

Please, read the [official documentation](http://symfony.com/doc/master/bundles/IvoryCKEditorBundle/index.html).

## Testing

The bundle is fully unit tested by [PHPUnit](http://www.phpunit.de/) with a code coverage close to **100%**. To
execute the test suite, check the travis [configuration](/.travis.yml).

## Contribute

We love contributors! Ivory is an open source project. If you'd like to contribute, feel free to propose a PR! You
can follow the [CONTRIBUTING](/CONTRIBUTING.md) file which will explain you how to set up the project.

## License

The Ivory CKEditor Bundle is under the MIT license. For the full copyright and license information, please read the
[LICENSE](/LICENSE) file that was distributed with this source code.
